Hello Eric,

Thank you very much for your message and for your kind comments about conjugaison.tatitotu.ch. It is very rewarding to know that the website has been helping you in your French learning journey for several years.

Thank you as well for taking the time to point this out regarding the verb “sortir.” Your observation is absolutely valid.

In fact, “sortir” can use two different auxiliary verbs depending on the meaning being expressed:

With the auxiliary “être” when it is used intransitively (without a direct object), meaning that a person is going out themselves:
Je suis sorti. (“I went out.”)
Nous étions sortis.
Elle serait sortie.
With the auxiliary “avoir” when it is used transitively (with a direct object), meaning that someone is taking something out:
J’ai sorti les poubelles. (“I took out the trash.”)
Nous avions sorti la voiture du garage.
Elle aurait sorti son téléphone.
This is why some conjugated forms may differ depending on the context of the sentence.

That said, I will still carefully check the behavior of the website to make sure there is not indeed an error in some exercises or automatic generations.

Thank you again for your message, your attention to detail, and your very encouraging words.

I wish you all the best in your continued French learning!

Kind regards,

Christophe



De : Eric P <ecmp.work@gmail.com>
Date : dimanche, 24 mai 2026 à 20:08
À : Christophe Roulet <christophe.roulet@edu-vd.ch>
Objet : conjugaison.tatitotu.ch - Possible error with Sortir (Cond. Passé et PQP)

Attention : Le nom de l'expéditeur (Eric P) est différent de son adresse électronique (ecmp.work@gmail.com), ce qui peut indiquer une tentative d'usurpation d'identité. Vérifiez l'authenticité de l'e-mail auprès de l'expéditeur en utilisant la liste des contacts de confiance de votre organisation avant de répondre ou de prendre d'autres mesures.

Good afternoon Christophe,

I'm a french language learner from Canada.  I'm a big fan of your website.  https://conjugaison.tatitotu.ch.  I've been using it off and on for the last couple of years.  It's an excellent practice tool and it's been tremendously helpful to me.   

The reason I'm writing to you today is I believe I may have found a small error on your website. It appears to me that your website may be incorrectly conjugating "sortir" in the Conditionnel Passé and Plus-Que-Parfait tenses.  

Here's what happened:  Today, I wanted to practice Conditionnel Passé and Plus-Que-Parfait.  I chose several verbs to practice, including the verb "sortir".  At the end of my practice round, my answers for "sortir" were incorrect (not too surprising).  What was surprising was, when I compared the "correct" answers returned by your website with those on www.WordReference.com, I discovered that they did not match ( for "sortir" in the Conditionnel Passé and Plus-Que-Parfait ).

I've attached two screenshots. The first screenshot is of the answers given by your website.  The other is verb conjugation according to WordReference.com, for comparison.

As you may be able to see from the screen shot, the problem didn't seem to happen with Entrer, Aller, Venir (other VANDERTRAMP verbs).  However, I have not tested all the  VANDERTRAMP verbs.

Anyway, I thought you would want someone to bring this to your attention.   I hope you find this information helpful.

Thanks again for creating an awesome website!  It's an incredibly helpful tool!

Screenshot 2026-05-24 130859 - error - sortir - conditionnel passé + PQP.png
Screenshot 2026-05-24 131255 - WordReference - sortir.png

Best regards,
Eric
